Welcome back.
Let's continue building our robot friends app.
Now up to this point if you look at our index site genius Well there was a lot of copy and pasting that
we did if we had a lot of robot friends.
Imagine having 100 of these that we have to constantly copy and paste.
That's not very efficient does it.
Also if you remember our diagram over here of one way data flow we always had a parent such as an app
component that had children that had their own children and so on and so forth.
So using that knowledge we can have one big component that have different children so that we make each
component small and reusable.
Let's go back to our example now that we have a robot that J.S. we ideally can list all these 10 users
the way we do that let's have a card list component so that we import a cardless component which is
a parent of card then we can just render that instead of all these cards.
So I'll say the card list and again we'll have to created say a new file card this stodginess
again change you get to our table syntax will do import re-act from re-act and I'll make this a little
bit bigger.
And again we'll just say Konst card list equals won't accept anything for now.
But it will return.
Well what should a return.
It should return the cards right.
We can just copy and paste this
put this in here.
Let's fix the indentation here a bit
now card list will be the one that returns these cards and index.
A symbol will just render Carlist.
If I save this while I'll guess that card isn't being used so we can't remove it.
And robots aren't being used.
But we can use the robots now to pass that as robots.
He calls the robots array card list is accepting a robots prop.
I say this everything's working but I'm getting this error because well as you can see we didn't export
if we go back to the card list export default and hopefully by now you're start to get the hang of it.
There's a lot of repetition here but each time as long as you learn the syntax we're creating these
components nicely and we get a ton of errors because we don't have any access to robots and IDs and
card for that matter either.
So let's import a card from Again same directory card.
Yes.
Robots isn't defined.
We know that card list receives robots now.
So I have access to it and the props or I can be structured and say that we have access to it.
With robots if I see this look I have everything back the way it was.
But it's not all of them is it.
We're only grabbing the 0 1 2.
Only three of them.
And as we saw on robust Yes I have 10.
How can we do this better.
Let's make this a little bit smaller so you can see it looks like we want to do some sort of a loop.
Right.
We want to loop over the robots and create a card component for each one.
How can we do that here.
Andrea let's start off by adding another variable here we'll call it Konst card
component.
And within the card component we want to say that robots we want to.
Well what do we want to do when we do a loop.
As I've said before we want to map right.
We could do for each as well but I always recommending that.
And within this map each robot
gets this.
So we get a user every time we map through it so we can say user
should return again because a map needs to return it returns this right.
We want to return a card component I can copy and paste this right here.
And within the return I can just say now instead of robots index 0 do we have the index Well yeah because
you remember the second parameter that we get in a map is the index.
So I can say a user and I for index.
And now within robots I'll say hi for index Ishaan the first time around this will be zero then 1 then
2 all the way to 9 to include our 10 robots.
Let's see if this actually works.
If I had card component here you remember that we have to wrap it in curly brackets because it's javascript
so it knows to evaluate.
If I saved this looks like it's compiling successfully I go back and.
Holy moly.
Well we got ourselves a card or a.
How cool is that.
That was incredibly fast to do.
We just use our common sense and Javascript knowledge.
Just use map to return multiple components.
I hope you realize how powerful that is and that is why re-act is so popular right now.
We're able to use javascript to return these Shyamal elements and do things really really fast.
If I open up the console here I'll see that I get a warning.
Each child in an array or iterator should have a unique key prop and there there's a link to it if you
want to read up on it.
This is a special case that you just have to remember when working with react the way the virtual Dom
works is it keeps track of what all these cards are.
But without having something called a key prop if some of these cards get deleted react to won't know
which ones which and will have to change the entire Dom vs. if he had a key proppant says oh this one
gets removed.
I can just remove this from the don't member we want to minimize the amount of work that we do to the
dump.
So when you do a loop it's just something you have to remember.
You have to give it a unique key in our case.
We can just say hi which is index.
If we save this
up we have to wrap it in curly brackets again.
Because it's javascript and there you go.
Now we don't have the air any more.
And let's just make this on a new line just sort of looks prettier.
And because we're returning it on multiple lines we want to wrap this in a bracket right.
And that's better.
So this is working nicely as we want it.
I want to show you one thing because this is java script anything we put in these curly brackets is
javascript including comments.
Well we can just copy and paste this entire thing.
Remove the constant and just add it within the brackets.
If I save this it should still work like it does.
And this is another power of re-act react makes you a really really good javascript programmer because
other than this GSX syntax everything else is just javascript.
So we are able to create a cardless component that lists cards and all we need to do is pass it a prop
of robots and we just made this a htan cleaner.
Very cool.
All right that's it for this video.
More things will happen in the next one.
See you on that one.
Bye bye.